Prepare 2026.2 (#178)
pimcore/platform-version: doc/02_Pimcore_Platform/05_Updating_Pimcore/02_Release_Notes/01_2026.2.md

# Release 2026.2

Here you will find the important new features and release notes of the Platform Version 2026.2 release.
Please also make sure to run all migrations after update as always.

## Most Important New Features

### Pimcore Studio: Saved Search, Dark Theme, Translation Split Screen & more

Since the release of Pimcore Studio, development has focused strongly on stabilization and product maturity.
Based on partner and customer feedback, key issues have been addressed and important workflows optimized for a
smoother, more dependable experience. On top of that, this release also brings a set of new features:

- **Saved search** — save, share, update, and execute searches, making it easier to reuse search
  configurations, collaborate with others, and access frequently used setups.
- **Translation Split Screen for Data Objects** — maintain multiple languages at once, comparing, editing, and
  updating localized content side by side in a single view.

> - **Dark Theme** — a new dark theme for a more comfortable working experience in low-light environments.

Author: this is not just the dark-theme, but a whole theme manager, see https://github.com/pimcore/backend-power-tools-bundle/tree/2026.x/doc/30_Theme_Manager ... also add link to the docs there

- **Dashboard widgets** — new widgets for data quality and workflows, plus general dashboard improvements for

>   better insights and simpler configuration.

Author: entity ownership management is missing

### Copilot / Agent Bundle (Beta): expanded document support

Pimcore Agent Chat now has expanded support for Pimcore Documents, including creating and updating documents
and generating personalized target group variants, as well as support for Pimcore Document Templates (Twig
templates for documents). Proposal handling has also been improved and stabilized, with smoother workflows,
automatic element reloads after approval, and the ability to reopen approved or refined proposals for better

> traceability.

Author: Agent bundle is not part of the platform version, must not be mentioned there!

## General

> - **Single issue repository**: going forward, all issues are consolidated in the `/platform-version` repository.

Author: if mentioned, also add link to where issues can be created now.

Author: or at least to the discussions entry: https://github.com/orgs/pimcore/discussions/19189

  Public issues can be reported directly there; issues containing non-public information should be reported via
  the Enterprise Portal.

> - **Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)**: starting with 2026.2, an SBOM is provided with each platform version

Author: add link to where it can be downloaded

- **CDN integration**: new core events support cache invalidation on a CDN for individual assets and
  thumbnails. Pimcore ships a Fastly implementation out of the box, and the integration is pluggable for other
  CDN providers via a single interface.
- The legacy file-based maintenance-mode backward-compatibility layer (deprecated static helpers on
  `Pimcore\Tool\Admin` and the `var/config/maintenance.php` fallback) has been fully removed. Use the
  `Pimcore\Maintenance\Mode\MaintenanceModeHelperInterface` service instead.
- The `admin` translation domain (`Translation::DOMAIN_ADMIN`) and related translator internals are deprecated
  and will be removed in a future release.
- Minimum requirement of `friendsofsymfony/jsrouting-bundle` bumped to `3.6.0`.

### Pimcore Studio

Mostly refinements this release, no breaking changes: Advanced Columns refinements (context menu, additional
fields), a searchable language-selection dropdown, Data Importer mapping autofill, and the ability to merge
conflicting entries when importing translation files.

### Copilot / Agent Bundle

No breaking changes. Compatibility has been updated for Pimcore 2026.2, MCP tool token usage has been

> optimized (e.g. partial loading of data objects), and authorization handling for MCP tools has been enhanced.

Author: remove that block as this is not part of the platform version.

### Data Hub & Adapters

- **Data Hub**: added an optional `published` system field argument for data object mutations.
- **Data Hub File Export**: fixed duplicate file exports occurring with multiple Messenger workers, and a
  corrupted export filename edge case.
- **Data Hub Productsup**: improved Studio adapter-configuration permissions (read-only when the user lacks
  update rights, delete option hidden) and fixed a regression from a missing admin event subscriber.
- **Data Hub Simple REST** and **Data Hub Webhooks**: minor Studio permission fixes; no breaking changes.

### TinyMCE Bundle

- Added support for TinyMCE v8.

### Generic Data Index

- Improved reliability of index-queue dispatching between concurrent indexing workers, and fixed a bug where a
  rollback did not properly clean up queue entries.

### Customer Management Framework

- Security fixes: `ORDER BY` column names are now properly quoted in both the classic and Studio customer
  views, preventing a SQL injection risk. Updating promptly is recommended.

> ### Other Bundle Updates

Author: not sure if that whole chapter provides meaningful additional info for the reader?

Reviewer: Reviewed it and quiet not sure. Remooved the section, but decided to keep two entries for  Backend Power Tools and Headless Documents after having a "Dev" view on it.

The remaining bundles received smaller fixes and maintenance updates to stay compatible with Platform Version
2026.2, with no breaking changes. Notable ones:

- **Backend Power Tools**: bookmark lists are now a supported entity type for Entity Ownership Management.
- **Direct Edit**: fixed the "edit locally" button incorrectly showing on folders.
- **Headless Documents**: Studio configuration is now read-only for users without update permission.
- **Translations Provider Interfaces**: fixed an issue where the setting-store configuration location didn't
  work.
- **E-Commerce Framework**: fixed a voucher code issue.
- **Workflow Automation Integration Bundle**: fixed a Pimcore Studio compatibility issue.
- **Workflow Designer**: fixed an invalid state-machine save validation in Pimcore Studio and added missing
  permission translations.

All other bundles (Asset Metadata Class Definitions, Data Quality Management, Data Importer, Frontend
Permission Toolkit, Object Merger, OpenID Connect, Personalization Bundle, Portal Engine, Quill Bundle, Static
Resolver Bundle, Statistics Explorer, Web-to-Print Bundle) received maintenance-only updates for 2026.2

> compatibility, with no notable feature changes.

Author: remove that block

## Upgrade Notes

The following components have dedicated upgrade notes for 2026.2 — review them if you use these bundles:

- [Core Framework](https://github.com/pimcore/pimcore/blob/2026.2/doc/13_Upgrade_Notes/README.md#pimcore-202620)
- [Data Hub](https://github.com/pimcore/data-hub/blob/2026.2/doc/01_Installation_and_Upgrade/01_Upgrade_Notes.md#202620)
- [TinyMCE Bundle](https://github.com/pimcore/ee-tinymce-bundle/blob/2026.2/doc/01_Installation/01_Upgrade.md#upgrade-to-202620)

> All other bundles listed in `composer.json` had no breaking changes or upgrade steps specific to 2026.2.

Author: remove that sentence...

# Release 2026.2

Here you will find the important new features and release notes of the Platform Version 2026.2 release.
Please also make sure to run all migrations after update as always.

## Most Important New Features

### Pimcore Studio: Saved Search, Dark Theme, Translation Split Screen & more

This release focuses on stabilizing Pimcore Studio based on partner and customer feedback — key issues have
been fixed and important workflows optimized. On top of that, this release also brings a set of new features:

- **Saved search** — save, share, update, and re-run searches across users, so search configurations can be
  reused instead of rebuilt each time.
- **Translation Split Screen for Data Objects** — maintain multiple languages at once, comparing, editing, and
  updating localized content side by side in a single view.

> - **Theme Manager** — replaces the core `Appearance & Branding` settings with a full theme manager: define multiple

Author: it does not replace it all the time ... it is an enterprise extension which extends the Appearance and Branding. 

```suggestion
- **Theme Manager** — a part of the [Backend Power Tools](https://github.com/pimcore/backend-power-tools-bundle/blob/2026.x/doc/30_Theme_Manager/README.md) enterprise extension that overwrites the core `Appearance & Branding` settings with a full theme manager: define multiple
```

  named themes, each with its own token set and branding (background shade, brand color, logo, login background),
  extend the catalog with custom token sets from other bundles, and set a system-wide default that users can
  override per profile. Ships with `Pimcore Light` and `Pimcore Dark` built in. See the
  [Theme Manager docs](https://github.com/pimcore/backend-power-tools-bundle/tree/2026.x/doc/30_Theme_Manager)
  for configuration and customization details.
- **Dashboard widgets** — new widgets for data quality and workflows, plus general dashboard improvements.
- **Entity Ownership Management** — admins can reassign or delete ownership of user-owned Studio configurations
  (saved searches, dashboards, bookmark lists, etc.), so leaving users don't leave orphaned configs behind and
  the workspace stays centrally manageable.

## General

- **Single issue repository**: going forward, all issues are consolidated in the `/platform-version` repository.

>   Public issues can be reported directly there; issues containing non-public information should be reported via

Author: ```suggestion
  Public issues can be reported directly [there](https://github.com/pimcore/platform-version/issues/new/choose); issues containing non-public information should be reported via
```
